# HART Print - Schedule Optimization

This Laravel project is a demonstration app designed to optimize a production schedule based on real-world manufacturing constraints.

## Demo
https://hart-print.ctx-dev.fr

## Objective

Create an application wich contain :
- A form to place orders, which contains products and a need-by date.
- A production schedule, ordered by need-by date and if possible by type, to optimize set-up time.

## Design Choices

Form:
A form was created where users can place an order. When a product type is selected, the corresponding products are dynamically loaded. It is assumed that the minimum product quantity is 500 units per product.

Schedule Display:
The schedule is generated by first fetching all orders and grouping them by need_by_date. Each group is then internally reorganized by type, trying—when possible—to minimize setup changes. For example, if the last type used in group 1 matches the first type of group 2, the transition is optimized.

## Installation

1. **Clone the project**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/cedrictalves/hart-print-schedule-optimization
   cd hart-print-schedule-optimization

2. **Install dependencies**:
    ```bash
    composer install
    npm install
    npm run build

3. **Create .env file**:
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env

4. **Configure your database in .env**:
    ```bash
    DB_CONNECTION=your_database_application
    DB_DATABASE=your_database
    DB_USERNAME=your_username
    DB_PASSWORD=your_password

5. **Generate the application key**:
    ```bash
    php artisan key:generate

6. **Run the migrations**:
    ```bash
    php artisan migrate

7. **Seed the database with default products:**:
    ```bash
    php artisan db:seed

8. **Start the local development server**:
    ```bash
    php artisan serve

